<a id="readme-top"></a>

<br />
<div align="center">

  <h3 align="center">From Draft to Patch: Context-Aware Agents for Corrective Program Repair</h3>

</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<ol>
  <li><a href="#abstract">Abstract</a></li>
  <li>
    <a href="#get-started">Get Started</a>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#setup">Setup</a></li>
      <li><a href="#set-up-the-config-file">Set up the config file</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#to-run-swebench-issues">To Run SWEBench Issues</a>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#install-swe-bench-docker">Install SWE-bench Docker</a></li>
      <li><a href="#setting-up-testbed">Setting up Testbed</a></li>
      <li><a href="#run-a-single-task-in-swe-bench">Run a single task in SWE-bench</a></li>
      <li><a href="#run-multiple-tasks-in-swe-bench">Run multiple tasks in SWE-bench</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="#to-reproduce-results">To Reproduce Results</a>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#to-download-the-patches-generated-by-other-apr-approaches">To Download The Patches Generated By Other APR Approaches</a></li>
      <li><a href="#running-refine-on-the-collected-patches">Running Refine on the Collected Patches</a></li>
      <li><a href="#experiments-needed-to-reproduce-all-the-results">Experiments Needed to Reproduce all the Results</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></li>
</ol>




## Abstract

Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently shown strong potential in automatic program repair (APR), especially in repository-level settings where the goal is to generate patches based on natural language issue descriptions, large codebases, and regression tests. However, despite their promise, current LLM-based APR techniques often struggle to produce correct fixes due to limited understanding of code context and over-reliance on incomplete test suites. As a result, they frequently generate Draft Patches—partially correct patches that either incompletely address the bug or overfit to the test cases. In this work, we propose a novel patch refinement framework, Refine, that systematically transforms Draft Patches into correct ones. Refine addresses three key challenges: disambiguating vague issue and code context, diversifying patch candidates through test-time scaling, and aggregating partial fixes via an LLM-powered code review process. We implementRefine as a general refinement module that can be integrated into both open-agent-based and workflow-based APR systems. Our evaluation on the SWE-Bench Lite benchmark shows that Refine achieves state-of-the-art results among workflowbased approaches and approaches the best-known performance across all APR categories. Specifically, Refine boosts AutoCodeRover’s performance by 14.67%, achieving a score of 51.67% and surpassing all prior baselines. On SWE-Bench Verified, Refine improves the resolution rate by 12.2%, and when integrated across multiple APR systems, it yields an average improvement of 14%—demonstrating its broad effectiveness and generalizability. These results highlight the effectiveness of refinement as a missing component in current APR pipelines and the potential of agentic collaboration in closing the gap between near-correct and correct patches. We also open source our code here: Link to Anonymous GitHub Repo.



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Get Started

## Setup

First clone the repository, then with a working conda installation, run ```conda env create -f environment.yml```. Next make sure you have set up authentication for LLM based on your preferred provider:
* for OpenAI, set the ```OPENAI_KEY``` in your shell
* Similarly, for Anthropic set the ```ANTHROPIC_API_KEY``` in the shell
* Our tool supports access of Anthropic models using VertexAI
  * Create a JSON file with your vertexAI credentials and update the path along with the VertexAI project name in the app/config.py config file

#### Set up the config file

Our tool uses both the config file and command line arguments to set parameters for a run. the config file is used for fine grained parameters and command line arguments are used for some of the broader parameters. Please go through the config file (app/config.py) and set the parameters accordingly.


## To Run SWEBench Issues

##### Install SWE-bench Docker

We use a [fork](https://github.com/nus-apr/SWE-bench-docker) of [SWE-bench docker](https://github.com/aorwall/SWE-bench-docker) to run regression tests (not `FAIL_TO_PASS` tests, but all the tests in the buggy programs). To install this, run

```
conda activate auto-code-rover
git submodule update --init --recursive
cd SWE-bench-docker
pip install .
```

##### Setting up Testbed

For SWE-bench mode, we recommend setting up ACR on a host machine, instead of running it in docker mode.

Firstly, set up the SWE-bench task instances locally.

1. Clone [this SWE-bench fork](https://github.com/yuntongzhang/SWE-bench) and follow the [installation instruction](https://github.com/yuntongzhang/SWE-bench?tab=readme-ov-file#to-install) to install dependencies.

2. Put the tasks to be run into a file, one per line:

```
cd <SWE-bench-path>
echo django__django-11133 > tasks.txt
```

Or if running on arm64 (e.g. Apple silicon), try this one which doesn't depend on Python 3.6 (which isn't supported in this env):

```
echo django__django-16041 > tasks.txt
```

Then, set up these tasks by running:

3. Set up these tasks in the file by running:

```
cd <SWE-bench-path>
conda activate swe-bench
python harness/run_setup.py --log_dir logs --testbed testbed --result_dir setup_result --subset_file tasks.txt
```

Once the setup for this task is completed, the following two lines will be printed:

```
setup_map is saved to setup_result/setup_map.json
tasks_map is saved to setup_result/tasks_map.json
```

The `testbed` directory will now contain the cloned source code of the target project.
A conda environment will also be created for this task instance.

_If you want to set up multiple tasks together, put multiple ids in `tasks.txt` and follow the same steps._

#### Run a single task in SWE-bench

Before running the task (`django__django-11133` here), make sure it has been set up as mentioned [above](#setting-up-testbed).

```
cd <Tool-path>
conda activate auto-code-rover
PYTHONPATH=. python app/main.py swe-bench --model <name of model> --setup-map <SWE-bench-path>/setup_result/setup_map.json --tasks-map <SWE-bench-path>/setup_result/tasks_map.json --output-dir output --task django__django-11133
```

The output for a run (e.g. for `django__django-11133`) can be found at a location like this: `output/applicable_patch/django__django-11133_yyyy-MM-dd_HH-mm-ss/` (the date-time field in the directory name will be different depending on when the experiment was run).

Path to the final generated patch is written in a file named `selected_patch.json` in the output directory.

#### Run multiple tasks in SWE-bench

First, put the id's of all tasks to run in a file, one per line. Suppose this file is `tasks.txt`, the tasks can be run with

```
cd <Tool-path>
conda activate auto-code-rover
PYTHONPATH=. python app/main.py swe-bench --model gpt-4o-2024-05-13 --setup-map <SWE-bench-path>/setup_result/setup_map.json --tasks-map <SWE-bench-path>/setup_result/tasks_map.json --output-dir output --task-list-file <SWE-bench-path>/tasks.txt
```

**NOTE**: make sure that the tasks in `tasks.txt` have all been set up in SWE-bench. See the steps [above](#setting-up-testbed).

### to Reproduce Results

#### To Download The Patches Generated By Other APR Approaches

Patches generated by every state-of-the-art APR approach on the [SWEbench Leaderboard](https://www.swebench.com/viewer.html) can be downloaded from the official [SWEBench Github repository](https://github.com/SWE-bench/experiments) which contains steps on how do download the logs, trajectories and patches and is a mandatory step for all leaderboard attempts. Once the patches have been downloaded, add them to a JSON file in the following format: { 'issue_id': 'patch', ... } and save the path of this JSON file. In the app/config.py file set the 'path_to_patches' variable to this JSON file path.

#### Running Refine on the Collected Patches

Put all the SWEBench Lite task ids in the 'tasks.txt' file (this list can be found at conf/swe_lite_tasks.txt or conf/swe_lite_tasks_30_subset.txt), and run the set up mentioned in [Setting up Testbed](#setting-up-testbed). 

After completing the setup, update the configuration parameters as needed — the run used default values from the config file, but you’ll need to adjust the file paths to match your local environment. 

Then finally start a run using the command:
```
PYTHONPATH=<path to repo>
python <path to app/main.py> swe-bench 
--model <name of model> 
--setup-map <path to setup map> 
--tasks-map <path to task map> 
--output-dir <path to where output is stored>
--task-list-file <path to tasks.txt task list file> 
--model-temperature <model temeprature - default 0>
--enable-validation 
--reproduce-and-review 
--num-processes <number of processes to be run in parallel>
```

#### Experiments Needed to Reproduce all the Results

* To reproduce the results from RQ1:
  * Use the 30 issue subset and run Refine on patches produced by the following APR approaches
    *  AutoCodeRover,
    *  Agentless,
    *  CodeV,
    *  BlackBoxAI,
    *  and ExpeRepair
* To reproduce the results from RQ2:
  * Run Refine on AutoCodeRover patches for all issues in
   * SWEBench Lite (conf/swe_lite_tasks.txt)
   * and SWEBench Verified (conf/swe_verified_tasks.txt)
* To reproduce the results from RQ3:
  * Run Refine on AutoCodeRover SWEBench Lite patches
    * Turn reviewer off and on in the config file
    * Turn context retiever off an on in the config file

# Acknowledgements

A huge thanks to the [AutoCodeRover](https://github.com/AutoCodeRoverSG/auto-code-rover/tree/main) team - our tool forks AutoCodeRover and builds on top of it and some of the setup instructions were taken from this repository.
